.\" Copyright (c) 2010\-2016 Plowshare Team
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Based on:
.\"   - xorg.conf.5
.\"   - sysctl.conf.5

.TH "plowshare.conf" "5" "March 24, 2016" "GPL" "Plowshare for Bash 4"

.SH NAME
plowshare.conf \- Configuration file for Plowshare

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Plowshare
(plowdown, plowup, plowdel, plowlist or plowprobe) uses a configuration file called
.I plowshare.conf
for its initial setup. This configuration file is searched for in the following places when plowshare is started:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
.I ~/.config/plowshare/plowshare.conf
.I /etc/plowshare.conf
.fi
.RE
.PP
Instead of specifying long command lines with user's preferences (credentials, network settings or
download retry number, ...), it is convenient to make them default.
.PP
Note: Usage of configuration file can be disabled using
.B \-\-no-plowsharerc
command-line option. There is also
.BI --plowsharerc= FILE
option to specify an alternate configuration file.

.SH FILE FORMAT
.I plowshare.conf
file uses an INI-style format. It is composed of six sections which may be present in any order. Each section may contain lines of the form:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
.B [General]
.RI "    " token " " = " " value
    ...
.B [Plowdown]
.RI "    " token " " = " " value
    ...
.B [Plowup]
.RI "    " token " " = " " value
    ...
.B [Plowdel]
.RI "    " token " " = " " value
    ...
.B [Plowlist]
.RI "    " token " " = " " value
    ...
.B [Plowprobe]
.RI "    " token " " = " " value
    ...

.B # this is a comment
.fi
.RE
.PP
Notes:
.IP \(bu 2
Sections are unordered.
.IP \(bu 2
Blank lines or lines beginning with a hash character ('#') are treated as comments and ignored.
.IP \(bu 2
Whitespace before and after a \fItoken\fP or \fIvalue\fP is ignored (although a \fIvalue\fP can contain whitespace within).
.IP \(bu 2
Double quoting \fIvalue\fP is optional. Use them to preserve leading and trailing whitespace.
.PP
Valid tokens are always lowercase.
Names are long-option command-line arguments of plowshare. For example: \fItemp-directory\fP for plowdown.
For modules options, tokens are prepended by module name and a slash character. For example: \fIrapidgator/auth\fP (short-option are also possible here).

For values, no backslash interpretation is made. "\\t" is a regular string with two characters, it is not a tab character.

Options in general section prevail over Plow* section. Options given on the command line prevail over configuration file options.

.\" ****************************************************************************
.\" * Example                                                                  *
.\" ****************************************************************************
.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
###
### Plowshare configuration file
###

[General]
interface = eth1
rapidshare/a = matt:4deadbeef
rapidgator/a = "matt:4 dead beef "
antigate=bc427381269d702eccc509b8849e5b0d

[Plowdown]
timeout=3600
no-overwrite=1

[Plowup]
max-retries=2
printf=Download URL: %u%nDelete   URL: %d%n
uploadmemodule/auth-free = foo@bar.com:kjguiy1581!
uploadmemodule/folder = incoming

[Plowlist]
verbose = 3
.EE

.\" ****************************************************************************
.\" * Authors / See Also                                                       *
.\" ****************************************************************************
.SH AUTHORS
Plowshare was initially written by Arnau Sanchez. See the AUTHORS file for a list of some of the many other contributors.

Plowshare is (C) 2010-2016 The Plowshare Team
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR plowdown (1),
.BR plowup (1),
.BR plowdel (1),
.BR plowlist (1),
.BR plowprobe (1),
.BR plowmod (1).
