.\" Copyright (c) 2010\-2015 Plowshare Team
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

.TH "plowlist" "1" "March 23, 2015" "GPL" "Plowshare for Bash 4"

.SH NAME
plowlist \- List links from shared folders websites

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B plowlist
[\fIOPTIONS\fP]...
[\fIMODULE_OPTIONS\fP]...
\fIURL\fP...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B plowlist
is a command-line tool designed for listing links (files) on file-sharing websites.
Provided links can be downloaded with plowdown(1).

.\" ****************************************************************************
.\" * Options                                                                  *
.\" ****************************************************************************
.SH OPTIONS

.SS Common options
.TP
.BI -i, " " --interface= IFACE
If your machine has several network interfaces, force using \fIIFACE\fR interface.
.TP
.B -R, --recursive
Recurse into sub folders.
.TP
.BI "   " " " --printf= FORMAT
Print results (on stdout) in a given format (for each non-dead link). Default format string is \fI"%F%u%n"\fR. Interpreted sequences are:
.RS
.TP
\fI%%\fR
raw % character
.TP
\fI%f\fR
filename (can be empty string if module list function does not report any name)
.TP
\fI%F\fR
empty if \fB%f\fR is empty, or alias to "\fB# %f%n\fR".
.TP
\fI%m\fR
module name
.TP
\fI%n\fR
newline
.TP
\fI%t\fR
tabulation character
.TP
\fI%u\fR
download url
.TP
\fI%U\fR
same as \fB%u\fR but url is escaped for JSON usage
.SS Logging options
.TP
.BI -v, " " --verbose= LEVEL
Set output verbosity level:
.RS
\fB0\fR  none,
.RE
.RS
\fB1\fR  errors,
.RE
.RS
\fB2\fR  notice (default behavior),
.RE
.RS
\fB3\fR  debug,
.RE
.RS
\fB4\fR  report (very noisy, log HTML pages).
.RE
.TP
.B -q, --quiet
Alias for \fB-v0\fR. Do not print any debug messages.
.SS Miscellaneous options
.TP
.B "   " --no-color
Disables log messages (stderr only) output coloring.
.TP
.B "   " --fallback
If no module is found for link, get page (HTTP GET) and simply grep all URLs contained inside.
.TP
.B "   " --no-curlrc
Do not use curl config file (~/.curlrc).
.TP
.BI "   " " " --curlrc= FILE
Force using an alternate curl configuration file. Replaces ~/.curlrc if it exists.
This option has no effect when
.B --no\-curlrc
is defined.
.TP
.B "   " --no-plowsharerc
Do not consider any configuration file.
.TP
.BI "   " " " --plowsharerc= FILE
Force using an alternate configuration file (instead of per-user or systemwide plowshare.conf).
This option has no effect when
.B --no\-plowsharerc
is defined.
.TP
.B "   " --modules
Display all supported module names (one per line) and exit. Useful for wrappers.
.SS Generic program information
.TP
.B -h, --help
Display main help and exit.
.TP
.B -H, --longhelp
Display complete help (with module options) and exit.
.TP
.B "   " --version
Output version information and exit.

.\" ****************************************************************************
.\" * Modules options                                                          *
.\" ****************************************************************************
.SH "MODULE OPTIONS"

.SS Common options
.TP
.BI -p, " " --link-password= PASSWORD
Used for password-protected folders.
.P
All switches are not implemented nor required for all modules.
See help message for detailed modules option list.

.\" ****************************************************************************
.\" * Files                                                                    *
.\" ****************************************************************************
.SH "FILES"
.TP
.I ~/.config/plowshare/plowshare.conf
This is the per-user configuration file. 
.TP
.I /etc/plowshare.conf
Systemwide configuration file.
.PP
The file format is described in
.BR plowshare.conf (5).
.TP
.I ~/.config/plowshare/modules.d/
User directory considered when searching for modules at startup
(plowlist will try to open \fB~/.config/plowshare/modules.d/*/config\fR).
One file per module (hoster).

.\" ****************************************************************************
.\" * Exit codes                                                               *
.\" ****************************************************************************
.SH "EXIT CODES"

Possible exit codes are:
.IP 0
Success. Folder contain one or several files.
.IP 1
Fatal error. Upstream site updated or unexpected result.
.IP 2
No available module (provided URL is not supported).
.IP 3
Network error. Mostly curl related.
.IP 10
Links are temporarily unavailable. This is used by mirroring/multi-upload services, maybe uploads are still being processed.
.IP 11
Folder is password protected.
.IP 13
Folder has been deleted or does not exist or is empty.
.IP 15
Unknown command line parameter or incompatible options.
.PP
If
.B plowlist
is invoked with multiple links and one or several errors occur, the first error code is returned added with 100.

.\" ****************************************************************************
.\" * Authors / See Also                                                       *
.\" ****************************************************************************
.SH AUTHORS
Plowshare was initially written by Arnau Sanchez. See the AUTHORS file for a list of some of the many other contributors.

Plowshare is (C) 2010-2015 The Plowshare Team
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR plowdown (1),
.BR plowup (1),
.BR plowdel (1),
.BR plowprobe (1),
.BR plowshare.conf (5).
